# Buildtools

The `buildtools` directory is a small compiler-compiler using an LL1 grammar description as input.  Currently, the grammar description
of the QQCS system is the file `z-qdesk.txt`.  In this file, the first section is the grammar description using a simple
unrestrictive syntax.  LL1 syntax is right-recursive and allows the empty string in productions.  An empty string
production has an empty right-hand side.  There is no alternate production syntax.  If a non-terminal has alternate, the
non-terminal is given another production on the next line.  Anything in the right-hand of a production that does not
have a left-hand definition is a terminal.  There should be only one non-terminal that does not appear in a product, and
is assumed to be the root symbol.  A # begins a comment line.

The second section begins with the comment `# Terminal-mapping` and contain one line per grammar terminal that maps the
terminal to a name that can be used as a syntactically valid name to identify the symbol in the generated code.  The
section ends with the comment `# end-mapping`.

The third section controls the generated code and consists of identifier comments and code comments.  The identifier
comments are of the form `#@non-terminal-suffix`.  The non-terminal identifies the production with which the following
code is associated, and the suffix indicates the point in the code where following code is to be placed.  The # is
stripped from the code lines and the lines are added to the generated code.  It is necessary to examine the generated
code template in order to determine the correct suffix for code placement within the generated output.

The Java class `CodeGen.java` generates a Javascript compiler template and is the only language currently generated by
the compiler-compiler. The class should be the target for modifications to the generated compiler template code.